                                          Indywidualny Plan Badawczy (IPB)
                                            Individual Research Plan (IRP)

               1. Podstawowe dane / Basic data
               Podstawowe informacje dotyczące doktoranta i realizowanej rozprawy doktorskiej. W przypadku
               promotora spoza Politechniki Wrocławskiej należy podać a liację. / Basic informa on on the doctoral
               student and the doctoral disserta on underway. In the case of a supervisor from outside Wrocław
               University of Science and Technology, a lia on should be provided.


                Imię i nazwisko / Name, surname
                Dyscyplina kształcenia / Discipline of                    Wybierz dyscyplinę/Select discipline.
                educa on
                Wydział / Faculty                                         Wybierz wydział/Select faculty
                Katedra / Department
                Data rozpoczęcia kształcenia / Date of
                commencement of the doctoral educa on
                Nr ORCID
                Promotor/ promotorzy / Supervisor(s)
                Promotor pomocniczy / Assistant supervisor


               2. Temat rozprawy doktorskiej / Topic of doctoral disserta on
               Propozycja tematu rozprawy doktorskiej. Przedstawiony temat nie musi stanowić ostatecznego tytułu,
               jaki zostanie nadany rozprawie doktorskiej złożonej na zakończenie kształcenia w Szkole Doktorskiej. /
               Proposed topic for a doctoral disserta on. The presented topic does not have to cons tute the nal
                 tle of the doctoral disserta on submi ed at the end of educa on at the Doctoral School.

               Designing neural-network based text-to-speech systems understandable at high speech
               rates.


               3. Harmonogram przygotowania rozprawy doktorskiej / Schedule for the
               prepara on of the doctoral disserta on
               Harmonogram przygotowania rozprawy doktorskiej z wyszczególnieniem etapów i miejsc
               prowadzonych badań, w tym terminów zakończenia badań cząstkowych (semestr kształcenia) i
               opracowania ich wyników oraz opcjonalnie w zależności od rodzaju prowadzonych badań, wybranych
               między innymi spośród następujących:
               • realizacja badań (w tym przygotowanie stanowiska badawczego, przygotowanie materiałów do
                   badań, wykonanie pomiarów/eksperymentów, opracowanie otrzymanych wyników),
               • przygotowanie i wysłanie artykułu naukowego do redakcji czasopisma naukowego,
               • wysłanie zgłoszenia patentowego do właściwego urzędu,
               • opracowanie propozycji wdrożenia dla przemysłu,
               • udział w konferencjach, warsztatach lub szkołach letnich/zimowych i prezentacja wyników badań,
               • przygotowanie wniosku i wystąpienie o grant,
               • mobilność krajowa lub zagraniczna doktoranta (w tym konsultacje naukowe i wizyty studyjne w
                   ośrodkach krajowych lub zagranicznych).

                                                                          1/9



                                                ffi                  ti
                                                                fi                 ti
                                                      ti                                  ti
          ti                                                                                   ti
ti                                                                                                    fi
                              A schedule for the prepara on of the doctoral disserta on detailing the stages and loca ons of the
                              research to be conducted, including the dates for comple ng the sub-studies and developing their
                              results, and op onally, depending on the type of research to be conducted, selected among the
                              following:
                              • execu on of the research (including prepara on of the research site, prepara on of materials for
                                   the research, execu on of measurements/experiments, elabora on of the obtained results),
                              • prepara on and submission of a scien c ar cle to the editor of a scien c journal,
                              • submission of a patent applica on to the relevant o ce,
                              • development of an implementa on proposal for the industry,
                              • par cipa on in conferences, workshops or summer/winter schools and presenta on of research
                                   results,
                              • prepara on of an applica on and applica on for a scholarship,
                              • domes c or foreign mobility of the doctoral student (including scien c consulta ons and study
                                   visits to domes c or foreign centres).


                                       Okres realizacji                                                  Zwięzły opis zadania / Brief descrip on of the task
                                      zadania (semestr
                                        kształcenia) /
                                    Task implementa on
                                     period (semester)
                               Semestr 1                                               Literature review, analysis of possible dissertation topics
                               Semestr 2                                               Literature review; initial experiment design; final topic selection
                               Semestr 3                                               Initial experiments
                               Semestr 4                                               Further experiments; model training
                               Semestr 5                                               Preparing a scientific publication; continuingdevelopment of hybrid
                                                                                       neural-platt methods
                               Semestr 6                                               Preparing a publication; further work on incorporating neural
                                                                                       components in existing methods
                               Semestr 7                                               Submitting a publication to a journal or conference; writing a draft of
                                                                                       the thesis
                               Semestr 8                                               Further work on the dissertation; its completion and submission



                              4. Termin złożenia rozprawy doktorskiej / Date of the doctoral disserta on
                              submission
                              Planowany termin złożenia rozprawy doktorskiej nie może przekraczać daty zakończenia ósmego
                              semestru kształcenia w Szkole Doktorskiej. / A planned date for submission of the disserta on, which
                              must not exceed the date of comple on of the eighth semester of educa on in the Doctoral School.

                              30.09.2029
                              IS THIS CORECT?


                              (rekomendowana data to ostatni dzień z okresu 4 lata kształcenia w Szkole Doktorskiej, np. jeżeli
                              kształcenie rozpoczęło się 1.10.2025, to proszę wpisać 30.09.2029 /
                              The recommended date, which marks the nal day of the four-year doctoral training period. For
                              example, if your training began on October 1st, 2025, please enter September 30th, 2029)

                                                                                                                        2/9



     5. Uzasadnienie wyboru tematu rozprawy doktorskiej / Jus                               ca on for
     choosing the topic of the doctoral disserta on
     Opis zawierający uzasadnienie wyboru tematu rozprawy doktorskiej uwzględniający potencjalne
     obszary zastosowania planowanych wyników rozprawy doktorskiej (maks. 1 strona, czcionka 11 pt.,
     interlinia 1). / Descrip on containing the jus ca on for the selec on of the topic of the doctoral
     disserta on, taking into account the poten al areas of applica on of the planned results of the
     doctoral disserta on (at most 1 page, font 11, line spacing 1).

     Text-to-speech systems are important accessibility tools for visually impaired users. They
     allow such people to use electronic devices such as computers or smartphones, as well as
     specialized assistive devices designed with these users in mind.
     TTS systems transform textual information into an audible form by means of synthesized
     speech. For people for whom reading onscreen text is difficult or impossible due to their
     disability, they form an alternative way of accessing this information. They are an essential
     tool for performing crucial activities, such as interfacing with banking and healthcare
     systems, communicating with colleagues or family members across large distances, and
     reading books or news articles. They also allow many such users to become working
     members of society. Due to the fact that text-to-speech systems are software programs,
     which can be distributed much more widely and at a much lower cost than specialized
     electronic equipment like refreshable Braille displays, improvements in such systems can
     benefit the visually impaired population at large, regardless of their geographic location or
     economic situation.
     Research [1, 2] shows that many blind users of assistive technologies are able to consume
     synthesized speech at rates exceeding 500 words per minute, where typical human speech
     has a rate of approximately 120 words per minute. Some studies and anecdotal user reports
     indicate that even rates around 700 words per minute could be understandable or partly
     understandable to some of these individuals. Listening to speech at these abnormally high
     rates helps these users consume information far more rapidly than they otherwise could.
     These speech rates are typically achieved with older speech synthesis technologies, notably
     formant (Klatt) based text-to-speech systems, developed primarily in the 1980s and 1990s.
     Much newer approaches now exist. In particular, systems based on deep neural networks
     are now utilized in other text-to-speech use cases, such as conversational assistants, in-car
     GPS navigation systems or language-learning apps. Research on these methods indicates
     that people judge their output to be far more natural and human-like than that of older
     technologies.
     However, no method has yet been devised to produce speech at rates desired by these
     users with modern neural approaches. My research aims to bridge that gap; my goal is to
     design a speech synthesis approach that sounds more natural than Klatt-based systems and
     can speak at rates higher than existing neural models while remaining intelligible.
     It is important to note here that designing Klatt-based systems requires deep linguistic and
     acoustic expertise, making such systems unavailable for lower-resource languages. In
     contrast, neural networks have been trained for such languages at much lower cost and with
     less effort. My method could therefore assist the speakers of such languages particularly
     strongly. Making fast text-to-speech systems sound more natural could also help other heavy
     consumers of synthesized speech, such as people experiencing reading difficulties due to
     dyslexia or other similar ailments.


     6. Zarys aktualnego stanu badań w tematyce rozprawy doktorskiej / Outline
     of the current state of research in the topic of the doctoral disserta on


                                                             3/9



          Przegląd literaturowy zawierający opis aktualnego stanu badań w tematyce rozprawy doktorskiej
          uwzględniający odwołania do najważniejszych pozycji literaturowych związanych z tematyką
          rozprawy doktorskiej (maks. 2 strony, czcionka 11 pt., interlinia 1). / A literature review containing a
          descrip on of the current state of research in the subject of the doctoral disserta on, including
          references to the most important literature items related to the subject of the doctoral disserta on (at
          most 2 pages, font 11, line spacing 1).

          The seminal study on understanding of fast speech among visually impaired individuals is
          Bragg et al. [1]. The study was an online experiment conducted among 453 individuals, both
          blind and sighted. It demonstrated that many people can understand rates much higher than
          that of ordinary human speech, that visually impaired users understand speech at higher
          rates than the rest of the population, and that advanced screen reader users can understand
          rates exceeding 500 WPM; it also notes earlier reports that experienced users often prefer
          formant-based systems over other technologies which existed at that time. This study
          emphasizes that users who have learned to use screen readers at a young age are
          particularly likely to exhibit those characteristics. As there likely are more such users in 2026
          than there were in 2018, due simply to technology being more widespread, I believe their
          findings would be even stronger if the same study was conducted today. While Bragg et al.
          [1] conducted their research on English utterances, an earlier Japanese study[2] confirms
          that their findings are not exclusive to English, explicitly recommending synthesizer
          developers to increase their offered maximum speeds.
          Formant text to speech systems, preferred by advanced screen reader users as noted by [1],
          have been formally described by Klatt [3] and Klatt and Klatt [4]. Such systems model the
          human vocal tract by a graph of simple wave generators and filters, and are hence referred
          to as Klatt or source-filter based synthesizers. They use a set of handwritten rules to
          transform written text into a matrix of source and filter parameters, which is then used to
          generate audio samples. Because the parameters correspond fairly directly to
          understandable features of speech, it is possible to perform programmatic manipulations
          which alter the produced speech in a specific way, such as by changing its rate. However,
          the reliance on naive rules makes Klatt synthesizers sound much less natural than those
          using newer methods. A well-known example of such a system, still in wide use by the
          visually-impaired community, is ETI Eloquence [5, 6].
          Because humans are unable to produce speech at rates approaching 500 WPM, datasets of
          naturally spoken speech at such rates are not available, and hence traditional neural network
          architectures cannot be trained for them. Rate control was popularized in neural TTS
          systems by FastSpeech and FastSpeech 2 [7, 8], however, they have only demonstrated
          rates up to 1.5x faster than the baseline. A more recent work by Eskimez et al. [9] achieves a
          rate of 2x, but with substantially worse intelligibility. These and other similar works [10],
          explicitly model phoneme durations and vary them to increase the speech rate. Other works
          [11] derive the desired rate from a natural language prompt describing modeled speaker
          characteristics. Neither approach produces rates suitable for advanced screen reader use.
          Some work has been done in the area of neural network based TTS systems for accessibility
          specifically [12], but that work was mainly focused on low latencies and not high rates.
          Existing publications [13–15] show that hybrid systems, which combine neural networks with
          formant or source-filter synthesis, can be designed and produce intelligible human speech.
          However, none of them applies this approach in the context of assistive technology, focusing
          instead mostly on phonetics research, and their synthesizers are much simpler than the one
          proposed by KLSYN88 [4]. An English-only commercial implementation of this method exists
          [16], and it is designed to be used in a screen reader context, however, its details, dataset,
          architecture and training process are a trade secret and its impact has not yet been studied
          academically. Because of its closed nature, it cannot be used to train models for new
          languages or ported to new platforms.

          (Please see sec on 12 for cita ons used in this document).


                                                           4/9



               7. Pytania i hipotezy badawcze / Research ques ons and hypotheses
               Opis najważniejszych pytań i hipotez badawczych związanych z realizowaną rozprawą doktorską
               (maks. 1 strona, czcionka 11 pt., interlinia 1). / Descrip on of the most important research ques ons
               and hypotheses related to the doctoral disserta on (at most 1 page, font 11, line spacing 1).

               The primary goal of my thesis is to develop a method of generating synthetic speech which
               preserves some of the naturalness advantages of neural networks while being
               understandable at higher rates. This method should be easy to extend to new languages
               without the requirement of deep linguistic expertise.
               Text-to-speech systems intended for screen reader use must exhibit low latency and high
               responsiveness, so my method will use architectures which can support that constraint. In
               addition, I aim to make the resulting models usable on inexpensive consumer hardware,
               such as laptops and smartphones, without the need for a dedicated GPU, if feasible. To
               preserve user privacy and function in diverse scenarios, the models should not rely on an
               active internet connection or cloud service.
               My hypotheses and research questions are as follows:
               1. How to devise a method of generating synthetic speech that satisfies the above
               constraints?
               2. How to design neural networks capable of speaking at high rates despite the lack of
               appropriate human data to train them on?
               3. That a hybrid method combining neural and formant approaches in some manner could
               achieve this objective.
               4. And that this objective could also be achieved by replacing certain components of an
               existing Klatt-based system by those trained via deep learning, while keeping other
               components fixed.
               5. That distilling from Klatt systems and/or human speech processed by time-compression
               algorithms could also be effective; this is an approach I intend to pursue mainly if the above
               two don't bear fruit.


               8. Wkład spodziewanych wyników dla rozwoju dyscypliny naukowej /
               Contribu on of the expected results to development of scien c discipline
               Krótki opis spodziewanego wkładu wyników rozprawy doktorskiej dla rozwoju dyscypliny naukowej, w
               której realizowana jest rozprawa doktorska (maks. 1 strona, czcionka 11 pt., interlinia 1). / Brief
               descrip on of the expected contribu on of the results of the doctoral disserta on to the development
               of the scien c discipline in which the doctoral disserta on is carried out (at most 1 page, font 11, line
               spacing 1).

               I expect the main contribution of this work to be a method for generating synthetic speech
               which remains understandable at high rates while sounding more natural than older formant-
               based systems. It will also show whether neural networks can be combined with the explicit
               control offered by such systems without losing the responsiveness needed by screen reader
               users.
               The work should contribute evidence about which features of synthesized speech matter
               most when it is played at very high rates. The resulting models, code and evaluation
               materials could also help others study fast speech and develop voices for additional
               languages which I cannot address myself. My work should be a significant scientific
               contribution bridging the disciplines of Artificial Intelligence and Human-computer interfaces,
               with practical significance for its intended audience.



                                                                     5/9



9. Planowane metody badawcze / Planned research methods
Krótki opis metod badawczych, które są będą użyte w czasie realizacji rozprawy doktorskiej dla (maks.
2 strony, czcionka 11 pt., interlinia 1). / Brief descrip on of the research methods that will be used
during the implementa on of the doctoral disserta on (at most 2 pages, font 11, line spacing 1).

My work will focus on designing, adapting and improving neural network architectures that
satisfy the constraints described in section 7, as well as training models based on those
architectures. I will utilize tools which are commonly employed for neural network training.
This includes open source libraries such as PyTorch, Transformers or Diffusers (depending
on the specifics of the architecture), Jupyter for notebook management, git and GitHub for
code storage and version control, Hugging Face for dataset and model retrieval, storage,
publication and management. I will utilize (or, if necessary, develop or improve) efficient
inference libraries to run the trained models on devices which do not have a full PyTorch
installation. I will aim to use existing model building blocks (such as encoders, aligners or
duration predictors) when constraints allow, contributing newly-developed architectures and
their building blocks to upstream model libraries.
I intend to do my work transparently and in the open. My models will be licensed in a manner
which allows them to be used for further academic research. Whenever possible and
practicable, I also intend to release intermediate training checkpoints and training logs. My
publications will be accompanied by web pages or other auxiliary materials, containing audio
samples or interactive online demos of the developed models so that listeners can make
their own judgments of whether the resulting models are suitable for their use cases, as well
as their quality and intelligibility.
I will train models on datasets which have been published on the Internet at no cost. I plan to
publish the results of my research to peer-reviewed conferences such as Interspeech,. When
conference rules allow, I will place the papers I publish in open access resources and publish
preprints to arXiv.org, an open-access preprint server, which is the established practice in the
domain of artificial intelligence.
I intend to employ artificial intelligence based coding agents, such as OpenAI Codex and
Claude Code, to accelerate my research, help in writing and optimizing code, assist with
proofreading, grammar and other menial tasks when preparing academic publications, or
monitor long-running experiments. I will use the supercomputers made available by
Wroclaw's Centre for Networking and Supercomputing to run experiments and train models
and store checkpoints and other large artifacts I work with. I plan to use WCSS’s offered
SLURM installation for training job management. I may use external resources for model
training in case of requirements which cannot be met with WCSS.
I intend to conduct research (primarily online surveys) with human participants. As is
standard in speech research, I will measure speech naturalness using the mean-opinion
score (MOS) metric, speech rates in words per minute (WPM), and speech understandability
primarily by word error rate (WER), as well as other similar metrics. For rapid
experimentation, I will use automated speech recognition models to estimate WER, as is
common in TTS research.
To avoid bias, I will perform appropriate participant blinding and ensure models aren't trained
on test data.
To ensure the methods I develop have practical significance and to gather user feedback
early, I will share the results of my work not only in academia, but also with its intended
users. I will perform community outreach by sharing and explaining my work through online
channels which this community uses to communicate and gather feedback.




                                                6/9



               10. Streszczenie popularnonaukowe / Abstract for general public
               Streszczenie popularnonaukowe należy przygotować w dwóch językach: polskim i angielskim. Wersje
               językowe muszą być tożsame. Opis powinien być napisany językiem popularnonaukowym i zawierać
               cel rozprawy, opis planowanych badań naukowych oraz powodów, dla których podjęta została ta
               tematyka badawcza, a także najważniejsze spodziewane efekty (maks. 1 strona, czcionka 11 pt.,
               interlinia 1). / The descrip on for general public must be in Polish and in English. The language
               versions must be iden cal. The descrip on should be wri en for general public and should include the
               doctoral disserta on goal, descrip on of research, reasons for a emp ng a par cular research topic
               and substan al results expected (at most 1 page, font 11, line spacing 1).

               Streszczenie popularnonaukowe
               Syntezatory mowy pozwalają osobom niewidomym korzystać z komputerów i telefonów.
               Doświadczeni użytkownicy czytników ekranu słuchają mowy znacznie szybciej niż ludzie
               mówią na co dzień. Starsze syntezatory działają przy takich prędkościach, ale brzmią
               nienaturalnie. Nowsze głosy neuronowe brzmią lepiej, lecz nie są przystosowane do tak
               szybkiego czytania. Chcę połączyć sieci neuronowe z syntezatorami pozwalającymi
               sterować tempem i brzmieniem mowy. Porównam otrzymane głosy ze starszymi i nowszymi
               systemami. Wraz z innymi użytkownikami czytników ekranu zbadam zrozumiałość przy
               różnych prędkościach, naturalność oraz szybkość reakcji. Spodziewanym wynikiem jest
               metoda pozwalająca komputerom czytać szybciej, zachowując zrozumiałość i przyjemniejsze
               brzmienie głosu.

               Abstract for general public
               Text-to-speech systems allow blind people to use computers and phones. Experienced
               screen reader users listen much faster than people speak in ordinary conversation. Older
               synthesizers work at such rates, but sound unnatural. Newer neural voices sound better, but
               are not adapted to reading so quickly. I want to combine neural networks with synthesizers
               that offer direct control over the rate and sound of speech. I will compare the resulting voices
               with older and newer systems. I will test intelligibility at different rates, naturalness and
               responsiveness with other screen reader users. The expected result is a method that lets
               users read faster while keeping speech understandable and more pleasant to hear.


               11. Termin oddania do druku artykułu naukowego lub monogra i / Date of
               submission for publica on of at least one scien c ar cle or monography
               Termin wysłania do recenzji artykułu naukowego lub monogra i naukowej zgodnie z wymaganiami
               art. 186 ust. 1 pkt 3 Ustawy stawianymi osobie ubiegającej się stopień doktora. Termin dotyczy
               oddania do druku co najmniej jednego artykułu naukowego opublikowanego w czasopiśmie
               naukowym lub w recenzowanych materiałach z konferencji międzynarodowej w odpowiedniej
               dyscyplinie naukowej, które w roku opublikowania artykułu w ostatecznej formie były ujęte w wykazie
               („lista ministerialna”) sporządzonym zgodnie z przepisami wydanymi na podstawie Ustawy (art. 267
               ust. 2 pkt 2 lit. b) lub 1 monogra i naukowej wydanej przez wydawnictwo, które w roku
               opublikowania monogra i w ostatecznej formie było ujęte w wykazie sporządzonym zgodnie z
               przepisami wydanymi na podstawie Ustawy (art. 267 ust. 2 pkt 2 lit. a). / A date of submission for
               publica on of at least one scien c ar cle published in a scien c journal or in the peer-reviewed
               materials of an interna onal conference in the relevant scien c discipline, which in the year of
               publica on of the ar cle in its nal form were included in the list drawn up in accordance with the
               regula ons issued under the Act (Art. 267 sec. 2 point 2(b) or 1 scien c monograph published by a
               publishing house, which in the year of publica on of the monograph in its nal form was included in
               the list drawn up in accordance with the regula ons issued pursuant to the Act (Art. 267 sec. 2 point
               2(a), referred to in Art. 186 sec. 1 point 3 of the Act.
               [Date to be agreed with the supervisor, I have no idea what I should put here]


                                                                                                                                   7/9



     12. Inne / Other comments
     Dodatkowe wyjaśnienia, komentarze , podsumowanie związane z indywidualnym planem badawczym
     (maks. 1 strona, czcionka 11 pt., interlinia 1). / Addi onal explana ons, comments, summary related
     to the individual research plan (at most 1 page, font 11, line spacing 1).

     Artificial intelligence models and tools (GPT 5.6 Sol, 6 Astra, 6 Sol, Codex) have been used
     in the preparation of this work. Notable uses included proofreading and editorial support,
     formatting assistance, rephrasing and summarization of material to comply with established
     section guidelines.
     Bibliography

     [1] D. Bragg, C. Bennett, K. Reinecke and R. Ladner (2018), “A Large Inclusive Study of
     Human Listening Rates,” CHI 2018. doi:10.1145/3173574.3174018.
     [2] C. Asakawa, H. Takagi, S. Ino and T. Ifukube (2003), “Maximum Listening Speeds for the
     Blind,” ICAD 2003. https://www.icad.org/Proceedings/2003/AsakawaTakagi2003.pdf
     [3] D. H. Klatt (1980), “Software for a cascade/parallel formant synthesizer,” Journal of the
     Acoustical Society of America 67(3), 971–995. doi:10.1121/1.383940.
     [4] D. H. Klatt and L. C. Klatt (1990), “Analysis, synthesis, and perception of voice quality
     variations among female and male talkers,” Journal of the Acoustical Society of America
     87(2), 820–857. doi:10.1121/1.398894..
     [5] S. R. Hertz et al. (1994), “From database to speech: a multi-dialect relational database
     integrated with the Eloquence synthesis technology,” 2nd ESCA/IEEE Workshop on Speech
     Synthesis, 45–48. https://www.isca-archive.org/ssw_1994/hertz94_ssw.html
     [6] S. R. Hertz, R. J. Younes and N. Zinovieva (1999), “Language-universal and language-
     specific components in the multi-language ETI-Eloquence text-to-speech system,” ICPhS 14,
     2283–2286. https://www.internationalphoneticassociation.org/icphs-proceedings/ICPhS1999/
     p14_2283.html
     [7] Y. Ren et al. (2019), “FastSpeech: Fast, Robust and Controllable Text to Speech,”
     NeurIPS 32. https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2019/hash/
     f63f65b503e22cb970527f23c9ad7db1-Abstract.html
     [8] Y. Ren et al. (2021), “FastSpeech 2: Fast and High-Quality End-to-End Text to Speech,”
     ICLR 2021. https://openreview.net/forum?id=piLPYqxtWuA
     [9] S. E. Eskimez et al. (2024), “Total-Duration-Aware Duration Modeling for Text-to-Speech
     Systems,” Interspeech 2024, 2290–2294. doi:10.21437/Interspeech.2024-1327.
     [10] T. Kim, C. Cho and Y. H. Lee (2024), “Masked Duration Model for Utterance Duration-
     Controllable Text-to-Speech,” IEEE Access 12, 136313–136318. doi:10.1109/
     ACCESS.2024.3461772.
     [11] J. Hu et al. (2026), “VoiceSculptor: Your Voice, Designed By You,” arXiv:2601.10629.
     [12] K. Jain et al. (2025), “Compact Neural TTS Voices for Accessibility,” ICASSP 2025, 1–5.
     doi:10.1109/ICASSP49660.2025.10887661.
     [13] P. Pérez Zarazaga et al. (2023), “Speaker-independent neural formant synthesis,”
     Interspeech 2023, 5556–5560. doi:10.21437/Interspeech.2023-1622.
     [14] Y. Gu et al. (2026), “HiFi-Glot: High-Fidelity Neural Formant Synthesis with Differentiable
     Resonant Filters,” arXiv:2409.14823, version 2.
     [15] Y. Ding and W. Xu (2026), “ARIS: Low-Resource Glass-Box Neural Source-Filter
     Synthesis for Phonetic Stimulus Manipulation,” arXiv:2609.29923.
     [16] Blastbay Studios, “Voices.” https://blastbay.com/voices.php

     13. Określenie planowanej formy współpracy z promotorem / Planned form
     of coopera on with the supervisor


                                                    8/9



Krótki opis planowanej formy współpracy z promotorem, np. częstotliwość spotkań, forma spotkań i
ich zakres, sposób komunikacji. / Brief descrip on of the planned form of coopera on with the
supervisor, e.g., frequency of mee ngs, form of mee ngs and their scope, method of communica on.

[Draft, to be agreed with the supervisor] I plan to meet with my supervisor regularly, at
least once a month, to discuss the progress of the research, the results of experiments and
the next steps. Between meetings we will communicate by email as well as using other
instant messaging applications. For code, models and LaTeX source code of upcoming
publications, we will use version control repositories to which both of us have access and in
which both of us can collaborate.


14. Opinia promotora pomocniczego / Opinion of assistant supervisor
Promotor pomocniczy (jeżeli jest wyznaczony) powinien zaopiniować IPB. / Assistant supervisor (if
appointed) should provide an opinion of the IRP.


Brak promotora pomocniczego / No assistant supervisor.

                                           ...............................................................................
                                           Podpis promotora pomocniczego /
                                           Signature of assistant supervisor

15. Podpisy doktoranta i promotora/promotorów / Signatures of doctoral
student and supervisor(s)

Wybierz datę/Select date
..............................             ...............................................................................
Data / Date                                Podpis doktoranta / Signature of doctoral student


                                           ...............................................................................
                                           Podpis promotora / Signature of supervisor


                                           ...............................................................................
                                           Podpis drugiego promotora / Signature of second supervisor




                                                         9/9



